Israel's war on Hamas is having Ripple
effects across the Middle East the
conflict is rekindling tensions in
Israel's neighbor to the North Lebanon
with its fragile and divided population
some in Lebanon support the Iran back
has Bola which has threatened attacks
against Israel other Lebanese fear their
country which has been grappling with a
severe economic crisis could be dragged
into a fullscale
war this Lebanese engineer is worried
about about his future he is supposed to
leave Beirut next week and start a new
job in Saudi Arabia now he's not sure if
that will be
possible many airlines have suspended
flights to Lebanon over security
concerns and the country's state-owned
airline has moved its aircraft to
neighboring airports due to the growing
violence on the Lebanese Israeli border
can the country is in financial crisis
so I decided to leave and I got a job
opportunity in Saudi
Arabia I should be traveling by the end
of the month but now I'm worried that
the airport will be closed our flight's
cancelled I thought of leaving to a
temporary destination right away but
after considering the expenses I can't
afford this
option I'm anxious and I don't know what
to
do
the conflict in Gaza and Israel is
driving a further wedge into lebanon's
already divided Society fears are
growing that tensions on lebanon's
Southern border could escalate into a
larger confrontation with Israel for
some this is a
nightmare we are scared of course we
don't want conflicts and we are already
in a
crisis we're worried about engaging in a
war the country is devastated and facing
economic collapse We're Not Ready for
War but it looks like we'll be affected
by what's happening in
Gaza Lebanon must not go to war we're
not ready by any means the economic
situation is terrible it's impossible to
handle a
war but across the street other Lebanese
are organizing protests in support of
Gaza some are even calling for military
action against Israel
we are all concerned and we should be
unified if we don't support gazans today
Israel will attack us
tomorrow we are not scared of joining
the fight it's our
duty of course we support that Lebanon
joins the battle because we are one
people if we don't support them who
will divided opinions among the public
are a reflection of the political
polarization in the country
Lebanon has been without a president for
a year now after 12 failed attempts by
Parliament to elect a new head of state
the caretaker government is barely
operational and is out of resources it
is far from ready for a
War the government is working to prevent
War but if it happens we will be faced
with a shortage of Medicine fuel
possibly internet
Cuts also maintaining our hospitals food
security and supply of wheat are great
challenges that the government is
tackling and we are seeking assistance
from International
organizations as fears of further
conflict grow many countries have
advised their citizens to leave Lebanon
meanwhile like most Lebanese Muhammad is
left with
uncertainty and DW's Muhammad sha who
filed that report joins us now from
Beirut Muhammad Hezbollah has been
exchanging daily fire with the Israeli
Army across the Lebanon Israel border
described to us the current situation
along that border right
now well the rounds of skirmishes and
crossb shelling have become a daily
routine on the Lebanese Israeli front it
has remarkably increased in scale and
geography over the past days since
Israel evacuated thousands of Israelis
from its northern border towns and uh on
the other side the Benes who live in the
southern towns near what is now a front
line left their homes and moved north
towards safer residents and and shelters
this indeed uh contributed to the
escalation of military operations and
gave advantage to the Israeli Army and
hasah to intensify and widen uh their
strikes however at this point um this
does not mean that the status quo on the
lianes Israeli border it changed the
fighting the actions and the reactions
are still within the acknowledged um
Rules of Engagement by both parties uh
that we've witnessed uh since the round
of violent clashes emerged on October uh
8th now senior representatives of Hamas
and another uh islamist militant group
in Gaza the Palestinian Islamic Jihad
understand they've been holding talks
with the leadership of Hezbollah uh
Hezbollah based of course in Lebanon now
they released a picture of one of these
meetings yesterday what do we know about
these meetings
Muhammad well little information have
come out of uh this meeting but truly a
big significance now this Trio meeting
between the head of hasah the head of
Islamic Jihad and the vice head of Hamas
Is Not Unusual in in Beirut but its
timing is significant it's the first at
least that we know of since the conflict
in Gaza and Israel emerged in October
7th uh we have been seeing these type of
meetings between hasah and his Regional
allies right before the surprise attack
that Hamas launched on Israel this again
is a coordination meeting at least
that's what media sources close to
hasbullah uh uh said we know that all
three parties receive fund uh uh
logistic and political support from one
backer Iran as they are part of the
so-called resistance axis they have
always talked about sharing information
and being part of one military and uh
political uh kind of um operation
room they were also clear about engaging
in a strategy that unifies the fields of
confrontation with Israel and the West
as they say Muhammad thank you very much
uh for bringing us up to date there
Muhammad sha our correspondent in
Beirut